
DESCRIPTION OF RECORDS

1) In the eighth field of each record, a flag ("rg") has been written indicating
   our estimate of the region from which the data came.

There are three flag values:

   1    This time is definitely solar wind.

   2    This time is either solar wind or magnetosheath, with no differentiation
        being made.  This designation is used for multiple crossings between the
        solar wind and sheath regions.


   3    This time is definitely NOT solar wind, being either magnetosheath or
        magnetospheric data.
 

2) The ninth field "md" indicates the operating mode of the experiment. See 
   the detailed descriptions in the ADDITIONAL COMMENTS section below.


3) The parameter values: our 'better' parameters are in 
   the right column of each two-column pair.  The left column of the pair shows 
   parameters usually derived from taking moments of the distributions.  As can 
   be seen easily by eye, there is some discrepancy between moments and our 
   best parameters; moments are definitely less accurate.  

   These 'better' parameters may be accessed (with graphical browse functionality)
   at
	http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/ftphelper/mit_min.html

   Graphical plotting capabilities for all IMP experiments are available at

	http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/ftphelper/

   Use moment values with caution, and PLEASE request assistance or clarification. 
   For the moment parameters, changes in value are more trustworthy than 
   absolute values, but nothing is guaranteed to be accurate.  

   A value of 9999.0 means that we couldn't calculate that parameter.  All
   parameters are based on a convected, isotropic Maxwellian model.

   We recommend that, in the absence of data other than moment values, you try 
   to obtain the IMP 8 LANL experiment plasma values as well at
	
	http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/ftphelper/imp8_lanl_2m.html


4) We use the convention Jan. 1 = DOY 1. Please note that the decimal
   year is double precision, e.g. 1994.xxxxxxx where xxxxxxx is fraction
   of year.


5) Speeds and thermal speeds are given in km/s. Effects due to the
   orbital motion of Earth are removed from the better parameters, but not from 
   the moment parameters (see note 7).


6) Thermal speed is the most probable thermal speed (i.e., the square
   root of [2kT/m(proton)]). To convert thermal speed to temperature in
   eV, multiply 0.0052 by the square of the thermal speed; to convert to temperature
   [K], multiply the square of the thermal speed by 60.5 .
   This is probably the most inaccurate moment parameter, since moments tend to
   underestimate the temperature in cold distributions.


7) The angles are in degrees.  Azimuth is E/W, meaning bulk flow from
   the East or the West side of the Sun respectively, while flow elevation is 
   from North or South of the s/c spin plane (almost identical to the plane of 
   the ecliptic). For signs, positive azimuth angle means flow from the W; 
   positive elevation angle means flow from the S.  If we don't get good angles, 
   there won't be get any velocity components; speeds are available in some 
   such cases.  The aberration in velocity due to Earth's motion around the Sun 
   has been removed from the best (and threshsp) values, but not from the moment 
   values (see note 8). 

   "Threshsp" values are determined from currents greater than a threshold 
   value, below which we are not confident about the contribution of noise.

   Dr. Joseph King (GSFC) has looked at 27-day averages of OMNIWeb data from 1984-1994.  
   He finds (and we agree) that there is an offset of about +2 degrees (from the South)
   in the N/S angle and an annual variation of that angle with an amplitude of about 1 
   degree.  We believe that the annual variation is due to a tilt of the s/c spin axis. 
   He found the mean flow longitude in that study to be -0.3 degrees with no obvious 
   annual variation.


8) The moment values, for angles and for the speed, do NOT
   have aberration corrections included.  This means that the total
   speeds are slightly too low, and that the angles are not really
   correct.  In particular, the azimuthal (E/W) angle is about 4 degrees
   too positive; this can clearly be seen where both nonlinear and moment
   angles are available.


9) The spacecraft trajectory values (xse, yse, zse, ysm, zsm) are in 
   units of Earth radii.


10) For papers and presentations using these data, please acknowledge 
   that you received them from the MIT Space Plasma Physics Group. Please
   feel free to contact us if you have questions about any parameters.


11) Please send us a copy of papers, presentations, et cetera using
   these data.


12) If you have any questions, please contact

   Ms. Pamela A. Milligan  pam@space.mit.edu
   Dr. Alan J. Lazarus     ajl@space.mit.edu
   Dr. John Richardson     jdr@space.mit.edu		


ADDITIONAL COMMENTS

13) IMP 8 spins with a period of approximately 2.7s.  The Faraday Cup (FC) 
   instrument scans the solar wind distribution stepping through a contiguous set of 
   energy windows, one step per spacecraft spin. The FC instrument divides the spin 
   into thirty-two, 11.25 degree angular sectors and integrates the measured 
   currents over different angular sectors depending upon the Mode in which the 
   instrument is operating.  The border between two of the 11.25 degree angular 
   sectors lies on the Sun-spacecraft line.  


14) The FC sensor collector plate is divided into two, semi-circular halves; the 
   division line is parallel to the spacecraft spin plane which is approximately 
   parallel to the ecliptic plane.  The split collector allow determination of 
   the bulk plasma flow relative to the spin plane; North/South angles refer to 
   flows coming from above or below the spin plane respectively (flows from the 
   South are designated as having a positive N/S angle).  

   The bulk flow angle in the spin plane is determined from the measurements of 
   current vs. rotation angle.  The currents telemetered to the ground are the
   sums of currents for the two half-collectors ("A" and "B"} and, for the TMS and 
   AQM modes, also the current for the half-collector "B". 

   Electrons are measured except for the eight angles near the Sun.


15) The following Table describes the measurements for each mode.

MODE   NAME		ANGLES  number,[deg]	CURRENTS     ENERGY WINDOWS MEASURED
Number   						     	Protons   Electrons

2     Tracking (TMS)	eight, 11.25 centered 	A+B and B         8*         4
			on Sun-s/c line
			six, 45 for remainder 
			of spin

3   Acquisition (AQM)    same as TMS		same as TMS    	 24         21 

1   Non-tracking (NTMS)  eight, 45 		A+B only	 24	    21

__________
*Selected so that the peak flux energy step of the prior distribution is the 3rd step 
of this measurement.

   Note that the mode names are historical and confusing: the NTMS mode has the 
   greatest sensitivity because of the 45 degree angular sectors and hence longer 
   integration times, but all the energy windows won't fit into the working side 
   of our on board memory. So all the parameters will be in modes 2 or 3.  In order 
   to reduce the time between spectra, in the TMS mode the eight lowest electron 
   energy windows are covered using four sets of two windows of increasing energy; 
   those eight electron windows are thus covered in a sequence of four TM spectra. 

16) The experiment has two memories only one of which is operating perfectly.  As 
    a result, only every other TMS spectrum is usable, and the time between spectra 
    is usually twice that that would be expected from the spacecraft spin rate.  The 
    bad half-memory also limits the energy windows that can be used in the other 
    modes, since they require both memories to hold the data.  On occasion, the data 
    are read out rapidly enough by the spacecraft to allow repeated use of the good 
    half-memory, and the time resolution in the TMS is approximately 32 seconds.
